15. Fill (start here for wm edits) (1min)
     creates hemispheric cutting planes and fills white matter with specific values for subsequent surface tesselation

This creates the subcortical mass from which the orig surface is created. 
The mid brain is cut from the cerebrum, and the hemispheres are cut from each other. 
The left hemisphere is binarized to 255. 
The right hemisphere is binarized to 127. 
The input is mri/wm.mgz and the output is mri/filled.mgz. 
Calls mri_fill. If the cut fails, then seed points can be supplied 
(see -cc-crs, -pons-crs, -lh-crs, -rh-crs). 
The actual points used for the cutting planes in the corpus callosum and pons can be found in scripts/ponscc.cut.log.
The stage -autorecon2-wm begins here. This is the last stage of volumetric processing. 
If -noaseg is used, then aseg.mgz is not used by mri_fill.     

16. Tessellation (begins per-hemisphere operations) (<1 min)
This is the step where the orig surface (ie, surf/?h.orig.nofix) is created. The surface is created by covering the filled hemisphere with triangles. Runs mri_tessellate. The places where the points of the triangles meet are called vertices. Creates the file surf/?h.orig.nofix Note: the topology fixer will create the surface ?h.orig.


17. Smooth1 < 1 min
    Smooths the tessellation of a cortical surface

18. Inflate1 (1 min)
Inflation of the surf/?h.smoothwm(.nofix) surface to create surf/?h.inflated. 
The inflation attempts to minimize metric distortion so that distances and areas are perserved (ie, the surface is not stretched). 
In this sense, it is like inflating a paper bag and not a balloon. 
Inflate1 is the step just after tessellation, and inflate2 is the step just after topology fixing. 
Calls mris_inflate. Creates ?h.inflated, ?h.sulc, ?h.curv, and ?h.area.

19. QSphere (16 min)

This is the initial step of automatic topology fixing. It is a quasi-homeomorphic spherical 
transformation of the inflated surface designed to localize topological defects for the subsequent automatic topology fixer.
 Calls mris_sphere. Creates surf/?h.qsphere.nofix.

20. Automatic Topology Fixer (1-9 hours!!!!)
Finds topological defects (ie, holes in a filled hemisphere) using surf/?h.qsphere.nofix,
 and changes the orig surface (surf/?h.orig.nofix) to remove the defects. 
Changes the number of vertices. All the defects will be removed, but the user should check the orig surface in 
the volume to make sure that it looks appropriate. 
Calls mris_fix_topology. Creates surf/?h.orig (by iteratively fixing surf/?h.orig.nofix).


21. Final Surfs (start here for brain edits for pial surf) (1-2 hours!!!)
Creates the ?h.white and ?h.pial surfaces as well as the thickness file (?h.thickness) and 
curvature file (?h.curv). The white surface is created by "nudging" the orig surface so that 
it closely follows the white-gray intensity gradient as found in the T1 volume. 
The pial surface is created by expanding the white surface so that it closely follows the gray-CSF intensity gradient as found in the T1 volume. 
Calls mris_make_surfaces.

22. Smooth2


23. Inflate2

